# ProcessingGdxAdapter project notes

## Architecture

In Processing, we have:

```
interface PConstants; // LEFT, RIGHT, CENTER, etc.

class PImage implements PConstants;

class PGraphics extends PImage;

class PApplet implements PConstants;
```

PApplet shares much of its API with PGraphics, and in fact delegates all
drawing to an internal member PGraphics object.  ProcessingGdx describes the
shared API between PApplet and PGraphics using inheritance instead.


```
interface PConstants; // LEFT, RIGHT, CENTER, etc.

class PImage implements PConstants;

class PGraphics extends PImage;

class PApplet extends PGraphics;
```

Licensing note: ProcessingGdx is currently using the actual `PConstants.java`
source file from the Processing core library.  The Processing core library is
licensed as LGPL.  For non-LGPL licensing of ProcessingGdx, `PConstants.java`
could be moved to a separate jar file.  On the other hand, this is probably not
a huge issue since it's just an interface defining constants (i.e. like a C/C++
header file).


## Coordinate system

libgdx uses y-up, while Processing uses y-down.  
[stack overflow discussion](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7708379/changing-the-coordinate-system-in-libgdx-java)  

Use `OrthographicCamera.setToOrtho(true)` to flip y-axis. 
```java
camera = new OrthographicCamera(width, height);
final boolean yDown = true;
camera.setToOrtho(yDown, width, height);
```
`ShapeRenderer` and `SpriteBatch` have method `setProjectionMatrix()`:
```java
shapeRenderer.setProjectionMatrix(camera.combined);
// ...
batch.setProjectionMatrix(camera.combined);
```

[discussion of Texture and Pixmap](https://github.com/mattdesl/lwjgl-basics/wiki/libgdx-textures)  
[discussion of Sprite, SpriteBatch and TextureRegion](https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/wiki/Spritebatch,-Textureregions,-and-Sprites)

## Build

The subdirectories are each separate gradle projects.

The libgdx projects were generated by the `gdx-setup.sh` tool.  The command
line used is in _project-name_/`call-gdx-setup.sh`.  The generated projects use
gradle version 4.6.

I tried a gradle composite build, but this was not particularly convenient to
use; for now I'm using some command line scripts to handle dependency on the
ProcessingGdx library (jar).

